---
layout: sqlschool-case
categories: cases yammer
title:  "Case Study: Yammer"
date:   2014-06-01 00:00:59
seo-title: 
description: 
---

### Overview

Yammer is a social network for communicating with coworkers. Individuals share documents, updates, and ideas by posting them in groups. Yammer is free to use indefinitely, but companies must pay license fees if they want access to administrative controls, including integration with user management systems like ActiveDirectory.

Yammer has a centralized Analytics team, which sits in the Engineering organization. Their primary goal is to drive better product and business decisions using data. They do this partially by providing tools and education that make other teams within Yammer more effective at using data to make better decisions. They also perform ad-hoc analysis to support specific decisions.

### The Yammer Analytics Philosophy

Yammer analysts are trained to constantly consider the value of each individual project; they seek to maximize the return on their time. Analysts typically opt for less precise solutions to problems if it means investing substantially less time as well.

They are also taught to consider the impact of *everything* on the company at large. This includes high-level decision making like choosing which projects to prioritize. It also influences the way analysts think about metrics. Product decisions are always evaluated against core engagement, retention, and growth metrics in addition to product-specific usage metrics (like, for example, the number of times someone views another user's profile).


[A Drop In Retention](a-drop-in-retention.html)

[Understanding Search](understanding-search.html)

[The Best AB Test Ever?](best-ab-test-ever.html)